DRIVERS-2533: add RunCursorCommand API (#1412)
mongodb/specifications: source/unified-test-format/unified-test-format.rst

  operation.

  See `Cursor Operations`_ for a list of operations.

- CommandCursor. These entities are not defined in `createEntities`_ but are
  instead created by using `operation.saveResultAsEntity

>   <operation_saveResultAsEntity_>`_ with a `createCommandCursor`_

Author: updated the yml

  argument when parsing YAML/JSON.

- ``readPreference``: Optional object. See `commonOptions_readPreference`_.

- ``session``: Optional string. See `commonOptions_session`_.

- ``batchSize``: Optional int32. Use this value to configure the batchSize sent on the getMore command.

- ``maxTimeMS``: Optional int32. Use this value to configure the maxTimeMS sent on the getMore command.

- ``comment``: Optional BSON value. Use this value to configure the comment sent on the getMore command.

createRunCursorCommand
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This operation proxies the database's ``runCursorCommand`` method and supports the same arguments and options.
Test runners MUST ensure that the server-side cursor is created (i.e. the command document has executed) as part of this operation and before the resulting cursor might be saved with `operation.saveResultAsEntity <operation_saveResultAsEntity_>`_.
Test runners for drivers that lazily execute the ``runCursorCommand`` command on the first iteration of the cursor MUST iterate the resulting cursor once.
The result from this iteration MUST be used as the result for the first iteration operation on the cursor.

> Test runners MUST NOT iterate the resulting cursor when executing this operation and test files MUST NOT specify `operation.expectResult <operation_expectResult_>`_ for this operation.

Reviewer: we'll want to add an invalid test for this

- ``session``: Optional string. See `commonOptions_session`_.

runCursorCommand
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> `Generic cursor returning command runner <../run-command/run-command.rst>.`__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Generic cursor returning command runner <../run-command/run-command.rst>`__.
```

This method does not inherit a read concern or write concern (per the
`Read and Write Concern <../read-write-concern/read-write-concern.rst#generic-command-method>`__
spec), nor does it inherit a read preference (per the
`Server Selection <../server-selection/server-selection.rst#use-of-read-preferences-with-commands>`__
spec); however, they may be specified as arguments.

This operation proxies the databases's ``runCursorCommand`` method and supports the same arguments and options.

When executing the provided command, the test runner MUST fully iterate the cursor.
This will ensure consistent behavior between drivers that eagerly create a server-side cursor and those that do so lazily when iteration begins.

The following arguments are supported:

- ``command``: Required document. The command to be executed.

- ``commandName``: Required string. The name of the command to run. This is used
  by languages that are unable preserve the order of keys in the ``command``
  argument when parsing YAML/JSON.

- ``readPreference``: Optional object. See `commonOptions_readPreference`_.

- ``session``: Optional string. See `commonOptions_session`_.

> - ``batchSize``: Optional int32. Use this value to configure the batchSize sent on the getMore command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``batchSize``: Optional int32. Use this value to configure the ``batchSize`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.
```

[getMore: Command Fields](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/command/getMore/#command-fields) documents this as a positive integer. Does the server actually require an Int32?

If you do use a type here it should be consistent with docs for the option in the runCommand spec.

Author: Good call out, any bit width is accepted as long as it does not have a fractional component. I used `PositiveIntegerNumber` in the interfaces, happy to workshop that

Reviewer 2: Followed up in https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/pull/1412/files#r1190740992. I'll resolve this.

> - ``maxTimeMS``: Optional int32. Use this value to configure the maxTimeMS sent on the getMore command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``maxTimeMS``: Optional int32. Use this value to configure the ``maxTimeMS`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.
```

[getMore: Command Fields](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/command/getMore/#command-fields) only documents this as a non-negative integer. Same comment as above for `batchSize`.

Reviewer 2: Followed up on this in https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/pull/1412/files#r1190733860.

> - ``comment``: Optional BSON value. Use this value to configure the comment sent on the getMore command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``comment``: Optional BSON value. Use this value to configure the ``comment`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.
```

- ``cursorType``: Optional string enum value, one of ``'tailable' | 'tailableAwait' | 'nonTailable'``. Use this value to configure the enum passed to the ``cursorType`` option.

- ``timeoutMode``: Optional string enum value, one of ``'iteration' | 'cursorLifetime'``. Use this value to configure the enum passed to the ``timeoutMode`` option.

> createRunCursorCommand

Reviewer 2: I suggest calling this `createCommandCursor` for consistency with `createFindCursor`.

This also warrants adding a "CommandCursor" definition to [Supported Entity Types](https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/unified-test-format/unified-test-format.rst#supported-entity-types). See "FindCursor" for prior art.

Once you define the CommandCursor entity, you should also add a mention of it in [Cursor Operations](https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/unified-test-format/unified-test-format.rst#cursor-operations) (alongside FindCursor and ChangeStream).

Author: Added the entity and updated cursor operations

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This operation proxies the database's ``runCursorCommand`` method and supports the same arguments and options.
Test runners MUST ensure that the server-side cursor is created (i.e. the command document has executed) as part of this operation and before the resulting cursor might be saved with `operation.saveResultAsEntity <operation_saveResultAsEntity_>`_.
Test runners for drivers that lazily execute the ``runCursorCommand`` command on the first iteration of the cursor MUST iterate the resulting cursor once.
The result from this iteration MUST be used as the result for the first iteration operation on the cursor.

> Test runners MUST NOT iterate the resulting cursor when executing this operation and test files MUST NOT specify `operation.expectResult <operation_expectResult_>`_ for this operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test runners MUST NOT iterate the resulting cursor when executing this operation and test files SHOULD NOT specify `operation.expectResult <operation_expectResult_>`_ for this operation.
```

"SHOULD NOT" is used instead of "MUST NOT" since we cannot enforce this with the schema. See: [UTF: Design Rationale](https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/blob/master/source/unified-test-format/unified-test-format.rst#design-rationale).

It's for that reason the original language for `createFindCursor` uses "SHOULD NOT" and we _do not_ have tests for the behavior.

Author: updated, ty for the design context

- ``session``: Optional string. See `commonOptions_session`_.

runCursorCommand
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Generic cursor returning command runner <../run-command/run-command.rst>`__.

This method does not inherit a read concern or write concern (per the
`Read and Write Concern <../read-write-concern/read-write-concern.rst#generic-command-method>`__
spec), nor does it inherit a read preference (per the
`Server Selection <../server-selection/server-selection.rst#use-of-read-preferences-with-commands>`__

> spec); however, they may be specified as arguments.

Author: Yes those options are not permitted nor are they inherited, so UTF can just not mention them.

> This operation proxies the databases's ``runCursorCommand`` method and supports the same arguments and options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This operation proxies the database's ``runCursorCommand`` method and supports the same arguments and options (note: handling for `getMore` options may vary by driver implementation).
```

Fix a typo and add some context around `getMore` options.

When executing the provided command, the test runner MUST fully iterate the cursor.
This will ensure consistent behavior between drivers that eagerly create a server-side cursor and those that do so lazily when iteration begins.

The following arguments are supported:

- ``command``: Required document. The command to be executed.

- ``commandName``: Required string. The name of the command to run. This is used
  by languages that are unable preserve the order of keys in the ``command``
  argument when parsing YAML/JSON.

- ``readPreference``: Optional object. See `commonOptions_readPreference`_.

- ``session``: Optional string. See `commonOptions_session`_.

- ``batchSize``: Optional positive integer value. Use this value to configure the ``batchSize`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.

> - ``maxTimeMS``: Optional positive integer value. Use this value to configure the ``maxTimeMS`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.

Reviewer 2: I think this is copypasta from `batchSize` above.

```suggestion
- ``maxTimeMS``: Optional non-negative integer value. Use this value to configure the ``maxTimeMS`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.
```

Per my original comment: https://github.com/mongodb/specifications/pull/1412#discussion_r1190057247

Author: yep, fixed

- ``comment``: Optional BSON value. Use this value to configure the ``comment`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.

- ``cursorType``: Optional string enum value, one of ``'tailable' | 'tailableAwait' | 'nonTailable'``. Use this value to configure the enum passed to the ``cursorType`` option.

- ``timeoutMode``: Optional string enum value, one of ``'iteration' | 'cursorLifetime'``. Use this value to configure the enum passed to the ``timeoutMode`` option.

createCommandCursor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This operation proxies the database's ``runCursorCommand`` method and supports the same arguments and options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This operation proxies the database's ``runCursorCommand`` method and supports the same arguments and options (note: handling for `getMore` options may vary by driver implementation).
```

Same clarification as above.

Test runners MUST ensure that the server-side cursor is created (i.e. the command document has executed) as part of this operation and before the resulting cursor might be saved with `operation.saveResultAsEntity <operation_saveResultAsEntity_>`_.

> Test runners for drivers that lazily execute the ``runCursorCommand`` command on the first iteration of the cursor MUST iterate the resulting cursor once.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test runners for drivers that lazily execute the command on the first iteration of the cursor MUST iterate the resulting cursor once.
```

The monospace formatting for `runCursorCommand` looks like copypasta from `createFindCursor`, which referred to the `find` command explicitly. Here, the command can be one of various things.

- ``session``: Optional string. See `commonOptions_session`_.

- ``batchSize``: Optional positive integer value. Use this value to configure the ``batchSize`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.

- ``maxTimeMS``: Optional non-negative integer value. Use this value to configure the ``maxTimeMS`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.

- ``comment``: Optional BSON value. Use this value to configure the ``comment`` option sent on subsequent ``getMore`` commands.

- ``cursorType``: Optional string enum value, one of ``'tailable' | 'tailableAwait' | 'nonTailable'``. Use this value to configure the enum passed to the ``cursorType`` option.

> - ``timeoutMode``: Optional string enum value, one of ``'iteration' | 'cursorLifetime'``. Use this value to configure the enum passed to the ``timeoutMode`` option.

Reviewer 2: Per my earlier comment about using all-caps in the RunCommand spec, I've noted that this text means we won't have any conflict with the spec tests since you're making the connection between strings and enum values here.

This is better than the CSOT spec, which doesn't talk about the mapping between its enums and the strings used in spec tests anywhere.

> createCommandCursor

Author: Good catch, Jeremy and I discussed the updated naming in the spec so the one in the rst is the preferred operation name, updated the yaml

..
  Please note schema version bumps in changelog entries where applicable.

> :2023-05-10: Add runCursorCommand and createRunCursorCommand operations

Reviewer 2: This should be amended with "Added a CommandCursor entity type", like the previous changelog entry for schema version 1.3.

Author: updated

..
  Please note schema version bumps in changelog entries where applicable.

> :2023-05-10: Add ``runCursorCommand`` and ``createRunCursorCommand`` operations.

Reviewer 2: Please leave a blank line between the comment above and changelog entries.

```suggestion

:2023-05-10: Add ``runCursorCommand`` and ``createRunCursorCommand`` operations.
```
